# roguelikeResearch
Repository for summer roguelike research.

Note, this repository is intended to be frozen as part of our ASEE NCS 2024 paper.  The work-in-progress repository may be found here: [https://github.com/TheSaucySerpent/roguelikeResearch](https://github.com/TheSaucySerpent/roguelikeResearch).

This game was created over the course of the summer of 2023 through the <Anonymized> program. Its framework is based on the "Yet another Roguelike Tutorial" using Tcod, and any other significant changes that have been made are shown below. The game is a roguelike dungeon crawler that utilizes random text generation to assign the player a starting class and 3 different procedural generation techniques to generate the game's map. This game tasks the player with embarking on a quest to delve into the depths of the dungeon to duel the Grim Reaper and slay his henchmen to prevent having your soul harvested.

The Current State of the Game Includes:
  - Random Text Generation for almost all of the game's text.
  - Procedural Map Generation Techniques, including Cellular Automata, Rectangular Room, and Simplex Noise.
  - Starting Classes, which are generated by the random text generator and effect the player's starting attributes.
  - Dynamic Item/Enemy spawning that takes a given range of the chances for something to spawn in an assigns different spawn chances per floor, including the ability to     have unique spawns for gear, equipment, and bosses so that drops do not become repetitive.
  - A final boss enemy as well as henchmen sub bosses, with the potential to add more in the future.
  - A level up system to improve base attributes.
  - A stacking inventory system to allow for easier navigation through menus involving item usage.
  - An Auto-Explore feature that allows the player to quickly traverse easier or cleared stages is desired.
  - Ability to traverse upstairs to previous floors as well as downstairs while selecting different procedural map generation techniques.
  - Different weapons, item scrolls, and equipment that can be expanded upon in the future.

How to Install/Play the Game: 
  - Download GitHub Desktop
  - Select the Roguelike Research Current Version Branch on GitHub.com
  - Left-click the green "code" button at the top of the screen and make sure you are in the "local" tab.
  - Select the "Open with GitHub Desktop" option, and make sure "Roguelike Research Current Version" is selected as the current branch.
  - Select the "Fetch Origin" tab at the right of the top bar menu.
  - If there are any undesired/random changes on the left side, delete/hide them so that you can see the menu in the middle of the screen.
  - In the middle of the screen, select "Open the Repository in your External Editor", ensuring that the proper external editor is selected (I use PyCharm Community Edition).
  - Make sure the main file is selected as the run configuration in the top right and hit the green "run" button to start the game!
